how much do you think sleep schedule
impacts mental health huge
so if you look at sleep sleep is the one
symptom that i think is impacted by
every single mental health diagnosis
for the most part if i'm remembering
that correctly so i remember looking at
you know sort of like each mental it's
the most common element
if if not every single one it is the
most common
sleep disturbance is the symptom that is
the most common across all mental
illnesses
so the way that i understand that is
like sleep is the time
that your mind and brain use to like
repair itself
or heal and so when your sleep is
impaired your healing function is
impaired and so it propagates mental
illness
do you tell your patients to sleep
generally speaking that is not something
i say to them i don't say to them
sleep what i will do is ask them how
their sleep is
and i will try to help them sleep
healthier because
exactly like people are saying just
sleep doesn't work okay so here's a
couple tips on sleep
three quick tips first of all if you
want to control your sleep schedule it's
not about bedtime it's about waking up
time
it is far easier i'm not saying it's
easier
it's far easier to wake up when you're
tired than it is to
go to sleep when you're not
so if you're trying to control your
sleep schedule
you're in for 48 to 72 hours of rough
wake up
okay so i'd say that what you all should
do is set an alarm
set it loud and set it outside of hand
reach
ideally like outside your door with the
door open
so when it rings you have to get up and
physically get out of bed
bonus points if you can splash your face
with a little bit of water it'll help
you make up wake up
by all means if you guys drink caffeine
do that
control your waking up in order to
control your sleep but i just go back
so that that's where like yeah so you
have to learn how to not do that
right so notice that you just want to go
back and then as you're going back to
bed
ask yourself do i want to switch
uh fix my sleep schedule if the answer
that question is yes you can't well
not do i want to what matters to me more
fixing my sleep schedule or going back
to bed now
try to ask yourself that question second
thought
is screen time and blue light inhibit
melatonin production
so ideally two hours before you try to
fall asleep you want
no access to screens so physiologically
it's going to be
easier to sleep because your melatonin
will start pumping
and then you'll it'll like
physiologically literally be easier to
sleep
third thing is a bedtime routine is very
very helpful for sleep
so you can train your body and your mind
to fall asleep at a particular time like
in a very pavlovian way
two hours but i'm addicted yeah it's
hard dude not gonna lie
so that's why there's a reason i started
with number one first
because if you're tired enough despite
so what we want to do so
getting a good sleep schedule is all
about
harnessing the power of fatigue
so that's what i recommend especially
gamers so we're not gonna like we're
gonna use
fatigue as our gravity to fall asleep
so the more you can increase your
fatigue the easier it will be to
get on a good sleep schedule you can
read a book absolutely
you just don't want blue wavelength of
light
so audiobook is good book is good
you know exercise if you guys feel like
it stretch do yoga all that stuff is
fantastic
i think e-ink is actually okay yawn
so it's funny that you guys mentioned
this because like literally today i'm
i'm starting the process
of resetting my sleep schedule so i woke
up this morning about
three hours earlier than i usually do um
so i'm resetting my sleep schedule as we
speak
so now i'm already tired i'm gonna be
ready for bed in like four hours
i have i've recently enrolled in school
yes that is correct